So now that we've talked about
the print results method,
let's take a look at another
of the WordSearcher methods.
And this one is called
printSuffixSlice.
And as we did with our earlier
example with print results,
we're first going to
take a look at how
to visualize this method.
And then we'll take a look
at how to implement it.
So this will give us
a chance to visualize
the aggregate
operations that are
used in the implementation
of printSuffixSlice.
So first, let's talk about
what printSuffixSlice
is trying to do.
It's going to print a slice
of the list of search results,
starting at a particular word.
So, say, for sake
of argument, we
have a list of search
results, which are ordered
by Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti--
those would be the ordering.
And we print
printSuffixSlice La.
And what that's going to do
is that's going to ignore
all the entries of Do to So--
Do Re Mi Fa So.
And it's only going to print
out the entries in the stream
from La to Ti, which is
what is shown up there.
So this will give us a
chance to talk yet again
about [? collecting ?]
groupingBy, which
you're probably somewhat tired
of hearing about at this point.
But I need to show it for the
example to make any sense.
But we will get a chance
to talk about dropWhile,
which is a method we've only
briefly alluded to before.
And now we get a chance to
talk about it in more detail.
So here's the way this works.
This is the way that the
printSuffixSlice method works.
We take a list of search
results as the input,
and we convert that to a stream.
And we then have a
sequential stream
of search results, which, of
course, correspond to the words
we are trying to find.
And then we're going to
go ahead and basically
feed that into the collect
terminal operation, which
performs intermediate operation
processing, which in this case,
that's a no op, but
that will start to pull
the data from the source.
Then the groupingBy collector
factory method gets called.
That creates a collector
that has a map.
And you can decide
what kind of map it is.
You'll see what kind of
map it is in a second.
Shouldn't be too surprising when
you see what it's going to be.
And we end up then with a
map of strings, as the keys,
and lists of search
results as the values.
Now, here's where things
get a little different.
If you recall from our
previous print results example,
we just took that stream of--
we took the map, and we used
the forEach method on the map
to print all the results.
This time we're going to do
something a little bit more
sophisticated.
So what we're first
going to do is
we're going to go ahead and take
out the entrySet from the map.
Remember, the
entrySet is basically
a set of entries for
the key value pairs
that are in the map.
And we're going to convert
them into a stream.
So we now have a stream of
entries with key value pairs
for all the entries in the map.
So we have a stream
of map entries.
And then we're going
to kind of pipe
that into the dropWhile
intermediate operation.
Now, recall that dropWhile
is a stateful operation that
also can be short circuiting.
And we'll see here it will be.
And what we're
going to do here is
we're going to drop the input.
We're going to ignore the
elements in the stream,
as long as they don't
equal the word that we're
trying to use as the place
to start printing the stream.
So we're going to
basically print a suffix.
We're going to take a slice
and print the suffix--
not the prefix, but the suffix.
It would probably
not surprise you
to know that there's
also basically
a printPrefixSlice
method that uses
takeWhile to print to prefix.
This one prints a suffix.
And we use dropWhile to
do that, because dropWhile
works very nicely for that.
So what dropWhile does
is it slices the stream
to only contain elements
after dropping or ignoring
the subset of elements that
don't match the word that we
passed in.
So it just skips over anything
that doesn't match the word,
and then it gives
back the substream
where the word matched,
and anything that follows,
of course.
So that's what dropWhile
while is going to do.
The not equal method that
we're using here to do this
is basically going to take
the key from the entrySet,
and check to see if it equals
the word we're looking for.
And since it's not
equal, we negate
the result of that comparison.
So that's how we figure
out what not equal is.
So we're going to
keep dropping things
as long as they don't equal
the word we're looking for.
Now, as I think I
mentioned before,
dropWhile differs
from filter, since it
doesn't need to examine
the entire input stream.
And in contrast, filter has
to look at every element
in order to know whether
it needs to let it
through the filter or not.
Whereas, dropWhile will
simply ignore everything up
to the point where
it finds its match,
and then it returns
the rest of the stream.
So it's short circuiting,
and it's also stateful,
because it has to keep
track of what it saw to know
whether it equaled before.
The output of this
will be a substream
that starts at the word La.
And at that point, we then go
ahead and print the results
with the forEach method.
And that's going to go ahead
and iterate through each element
in the substream.
Now this particular
use of forEach actually
is, in fact, the--
this one is actually the
streams for each method,
whereas before it was
the map for each method.
This is the forEach method
that's defined in the stream.
And in this case,
we'll print the results
out using essentially
the same print result
method that we looked
at when we were
talking about the print results
method on the WordSearcher
class.